
Some thoughts:

For any one type of suspension system, 
there is an X number of linkages
And an x number of linkage bearings


Since we can assume that the linkage set of any one bike is not interchangable, 
we can treat it as a closed system, single componenet, called linkage.


The bearings are normaly sold as a set, and so can also be treated as a single componenet,
However this ebcomes problematic if ir when some one os hoping to replace jsut a single bearing / pivot,
while unlikely this is possible,
So it may be reasonable to list each pivot point bearing set as a separate componenet.
(In this case matching would have to be done via paramter rather then just compoenent)
Still need to research if there are different bearing styles for the linkages, and what types, and what paramteres are important.


Another consideration is the interchangabuility of linkage shocks.
Assumption is that for any one bike the linkage shocks that can be interchanged would have to be 
specificaly made for that model of bike, and we can list the interchangable componenets and not try to match up parametricaly.

----------







1. Single pivot

Rear axel is connected to the main frame by a swing arm

Shock is connected directly to the swing arm



2. Linkage-driven single pivot

 still uses an uninterrupted swingarm
 incorporates some form of linkage to drive the shock
 allows the designers to manipulate the leverage curve and so control the frame’s progressivity
 
 

3. Horst-link (four-bar)

rear pivot located below the rear axle on the chainstay

his means the rear axle is not directly connected to the mainframe, 
and so moves in a path which is defined by its Instant Centre and Centre of curvature, 
which may move as the suspension cycles through its travel. 
Depending on the position of the Instant Centre, the effect of braking forces on the suspension (known as anti-rise) 
can be reduced relative to a single pivot design. 

4. Twin-link (virtual pivot point) (VPP)

use a rigid rear triangle
 articulating on a pair of short links which connect it to the mainframe


4.3 Short Dual Link (SDL)
 
 
5. Trek’s ABP system
 
essentially a linkage-driven single pivot

uses a concentric dropout pivot at the rear axle.

allows them to mount the brake caliper to the seatstay rather than the chainstay.

 seatstays rotate less around the disc rotor than the chainstays as the suspension cycles, the effect of braking forces on the suspension (known as anti-rise) is significantly reduced.

In other words, Trek’s design works like a linkage-driven single pivot in terms of pedalling forces, but like a Horst-link in terms of braking forces. It’s kind of a hybrid.


6. Yeti’s Switch Infinity





------

Pivot bearings linkage bearings...



Notes on linkage pivots























